Hundreds of
thousands of reservists
are now gathering at the border
with Gaza
six days after the Hamas
terror attacks on Israel.
The White House now
says 27 Americans were killed.
14 remain unaccounted for.
Joining us now to discuss is retired U.S.
Army Brigadier General Peter Zwack.
General Zwack
thank you so much for being with us.
The White House has made it
clear that recovering Americans
being held hostage
by Hamas is a key priority.
How do you see that playing out?
Well, it's
it's it's
it's extraordinarily complicated
because it's likely that
that most of those Americans
or a percentage of them
are also Israeli citizens
and they're intermingled
with the other hostages
from a number of countries.
So
my instinct is that we need to
fall in and support the Israelis
while they
do the lead effort
to work those hostages out.
I don't think that
it's right for a negotiator.
And they can try.
But after what Hamas has done,
I don't think anybody's
in the mood for that.
But the problem is,
is that what will happen
if Hamas,
as they've shown extraordinary,
ruthless already.
They're already
so deep into the into this that,
you know, they can perpetuate it.
What do they do, for example,
to start pulling hostages out
and shooting them
if they're not getting their demands met?
And at that point, at
what point do you go in with major forces
or Israeli special operations or combined
special ops?
I don't know.
It's devilishly complicated.
I believe there's a lot of midnight oil
being burned in capitals.
And but what this does do is it
it just continues
to show the depravity of Hamas.
And I think a key angle is to try to,
as much as possible,
separate Hamas in Gaza from the
Palestinian civilians,
that they're caught in the middle of this
and are also hostage
to this awful situation.
I want to expand on that point.
General, is there any potential
for humanitarian
corridors, ways for those civilians
to get out of harm's way?
What would your advice be?
Well, my advice would be
and I'm so far away from this, would be
you're all you've got.
You know,
I know we're talking to the Egyptians
and other nations all.
There would be a hard mission as well,
because how do you manage the flow?
There will be also a major effort to make
sure that that
the any any type of outflow.
Where do the refugees go?
Egypt,
I don't think is ready to take on
thousands or hundreds of thousands
of of displaced persons.
This is really hard.
And I know in the whole this discussion
about sending food
and aid up through those corridors
makes eminent sense.
But do they?
But does it get to the Palestinians
who desperately needed in
in the in the city, or does it go into
feed to feed the Hamas and and continue?
I'll make one other point about Hamas.
How how ruthless
and how they purport
to be supporting the Palestinian,
the fact that even now
they're firing rockets out of built up
hell out of built up Gaza shows
they have no disregard.
They have
they have total disregard for the
for the Palestinian citizens
who they are using for cover.
And that should be,
I don't know, through
leaflets or narrative,
get out to the populations
who to that Palestinian population.
That is key in all of this.
Million a couple million of them.
Brigadier General Peter Zwack,
very much appreciate your time, sir.
Thanks for joining us.
Thank you for having me.